# DREHGNN
Drug repositioning is a new strategy for improving traditional drug development, which explores the new therapeutic uses of drugs that have been approved or are in clinical research for diseases other than their existing indications by using scientific methods. However, most of drug repositioning strategies often neglect the critical three-dimensional (3D) structural information of drug molecules, despite its fundamental role in determining biological function. To address this limitation, we propose DREHGNN, a novel method integrating an E(n) Equivariant Graph Neural Network (EGNN) and a Heterogeneous Graph Neural Networks (HGNN). Firstly, EGNN extracts the features of drugs, which are directly derived from the 3D structure of the molecules. Meanwhile, the features of diseases are inferred from the disease-symptom associations. Subsequently, an heterogeneous network is constructed by integrating drug-drug interactions, drug-disease associations, and disease-disease similarities. Then, HGNN learns topological features from this network. Finally, a multi-layer perceptron (MLP) is utilized to predict novel drug-disease associations. Relevant experiments show that the DREHGNN method significantly outperforms benchmark methods in comparative evaluations. Ablation studies confirm the essential contribution of 3D structural feature learning via EGNN, and case studies validate predicted drug candidates with existing evidence. These results demonstrate the feasibility of exploiting molecular 3D structures with EGNN to uncover therapeutic applications and establish HGNN as a reliable framework for drug repositioning. 

The code will be made public after the paper is accepted.
